Write phase 3 articles (#8)
CoherentLabs/StarterGuide: src/content/docs/phase-3-layout-assets-and-styling/Graphics & Shapes/advanced-ui-shapes.mdx

<Summary>
    Game UI panels often need to resize, cut into angled silhouettes, or blend into the scene without exporting a separate transparent image for every possible size.

    This article covers three practical CSS techniques for that work: <Highlight>9-slice scaling</Highlight> with <Highlight>border-image</Highlight>, hard geometric cuts with <Highlight>clip-path</Highlight>,
    and soft blending with <Highlight>mask-image</Highlight>.

</Summary>

## Why Shape Techniques Matter in Game UI

Many game UI screens are built from panels that cannot stay at one fixed size. A tooltip grows with item stats, a dialogue box expands for localized
text, a quest card changes height depending on objectives, and HUD elements may need different proportions on ultrawide or compact layouts.

The direct asset approach is to export a separate PNG for every panel size and every shape variation. That is simple at first, but it creates three
problems:

- The asset list grows quickly as the UI gains more states and sizes.
- Designers must re-export artwork for small layout changes.
- The UI can spend memory on large transparent areas that exist only to preserve a shape.

> The better approach is to separate the <Highlight>visual rule</Highlight> from the final size of the element. 9-slice scaling keeps decorative corners
> intact while edges stretch. `clip-path` cuts a rectangular element into a hard geometric shape. `mask-image` uses a stencil image or gradient to

Reviewer: I am not sure if this is better but `edges stretch` is strange :D

```suggestion
The better approach is to separate the <Highlight>visual rule</Highlight> from the final size of the element. 9-slice scaling keeps decorative corners
intact while the element scales up or down. `clip-path` cuts a rectangular element into a hard geometric shape. `mask-image` uses a stencil image or gradient to
```

:::

#### Slanted Health Bars

For HUD bars, `clip-path` is often enough to create a more authored look without adding a new image asset. The structure can be a track with a fill
inside it:

```html title="slanted-bar.html"
<div class="status-bar" aria-label="Hull integrity">
    <div class="status-bar__fill" style="width: 68%;"></div>
</div>
```

Both the track and the fill use the same polygon. This keeps the slanted right edge aligned as the fill changes width:

```css title="slanted-bar.css" ins="clip-path"
.status-bar {
    width: 420px;
    height: 28px;
    padding: 3px;
    background: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.12);
    clip-path: polygon(0 0, 100% 0, 94% 100%, 0 100%);
}

.status-bar__fill {
    height: 100%;
    background: linear-gradient(90deg, #4fd6ff 0%, #1a6fff 100%);
    clip-path: polygon(0 0, 100% 0, 94% 100%, 0 100%);
}
```

![Slanted Health Bars](../../../../assets/phase-3/graphics-and-shapes/health-bar.png)

### Composing Complex Shapes: Radial Menu

Simple polygons and circles are enough for individual elements, but `clip-path` becomes especially powerful when you combine it with CSS transforms to
compose larger, non-trivial shapes out of simpler pieces.

> A good example is the Gameface UI **Radial Menu** component. The menu is a full circle divided into even pie-slice segments. Each segment is a

Reviewer: Maybe add a link to the radial menu here
```suggestion
A good example is the Gameface UI <Link>**Radial Menu**</Link> component. The menu is a full circle divided into even pie-slice segments. Each segment is a
```
